only 50% of all cyberattacks are
successful 50% that doesn't sound like a
very lucrative campaign does it when I
was in grade school admittedly I was not
a very good student academically
speaking anyway as such I had to become
intimately familiar with the grading
scale so I'd know exactly what score I'd
need to get to pass a test
sometimes this worked in aiming for just
above that demarcation between failing
and passing was enough for me to secure
success in my school the failure mark
was 69% so we're all agree that
according to the standards codified by
my junior high and attack campaign
receiving a 50% victim rate would by all
accounts be considered a failure right
wrong because it takes one person to
fall victim for a modern cyberattack in
order for it to be considered a success
once they've gained access attackers
will install malware on the victim
computer and then advanced their
positions or pivot and lateral movement
morphing their code to evade detection
and then finally once they have their
trove they will exfiltrate
and disappear into the ether their plan
low next campaign infect pillage rinse
and repeat recent data breach studies
have shown that an only do up to 50% of
all attack targets fall victim but they
do so within the first hour of the
attack three months ago the Ashley
Madison breach exposed their entire
customer database resulting in the
compromised and publication of up to 32
million email addresses passwords and
credit card numbers incidents like this
are no longer the exception but they're
becoming an almost everyday occurrence
we see names in the headlines like Sony
Target Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield
Home Depot JPMorgan Chase even the
federal government the estimated cost of
the average data breach rose to three
point seven nine million dollars in 2015
which represents a 23% growth of the
past two years alone does that not sound
like a fantastic investment opportunity
if only this really JIT amid business
at the source of these attacks is a
diverse group of intelligent adversaries
ranging from hacktivists like anonymous
to crime syndicates even nation-states
and really their motives couldn't be
simpler in the postmodern digital age of
information and social media what they
want is your data now I know what you're
probably all saying yeah yeah we know
all this already right malware is bad
and the Internet is dangerous but I've
got antivirus software running on my
home computer I haven't even got a
firewall on my home network so I'm good
right well I'm sorry to say that those
niceties just are not as effective as
they once were the days have set it and
forget it security controls are a thing
of the past 15 years ago the hacker
stereotype was analogous to the
twenty-something pimple-faced
underachiever living in his parents
basement and playing video games
exploding software vulnerabilities in
his spare time the motive there was fun
and the reward was bragging rights these
were mostly just smash-and-grab jobs
remember the I love you worm of the
Melissa virus from the turn of the
century those attacks were slow to
develop difficult to achieve and mostly
easy to detect and while they still
cause some damage they were mostly just
considered annoyance where in this world
tools like antivirus software and port
based firewalls could still help protect
you but the threat landscape is changing
zero-day vulnerabilities in brute-force
hacking are still active but they're no
longer as prevalent they've been
displaced by a cheaper more effective
style of attack one that's successful
about 50% of the time and those odds are
pretty great humans humans of the new
attack vector it's no longer just
computers or our apps the target and
motives have shifted to you and to yours
this is true for personal and business
information for employees and employers
alike no noun is safe why a cyber
security is such a big deal today
because the attacks are global in nature
in their increasing in frequency and
severity we are most definitely at war
and the Internet is our battlefield the
next question really is how can we arm
ourselves now I'm not trying to make you
paranoid but you really should be
listen this is a real problem but
there's a simple solution we can't just
rely on building better tools like a
better firewall because they'll be
obsolete by the time the bad guys have
changed their method speaking as a
security professional for over a decade
I can tell you that relying on tools
alone is a losing battle
unlike fighting vampires there's no
silver bullet here so just like in the
days of yore it's the layered defense
model that is the most effective to
protect our critical assets from being
pillaged next generation security
software application aware firewalls big
data analytics these are all a great
start but towering above all the tools
policies and politics is education
that's right training awareness
education it's the only path forward to
holistically protect ourselves against
these very dynamic threats and just like
we would discipline the mind and train
the body to protect ourselves against
physical threats we need to do the same
for cyber threats against our data and
our information really our well being
this is why I believe that cyber
self-defense is going to become an
in-demand and necessary skill for
tomorrow's professional an asset that
employers will seek in the future
workforce as evidence of a conscientious
and caring individual who understands
the value of protecting information and
business intelligence as the cost and
impact of data breaches continue to
increase companies are drastically
investing in holistic security programs
and defensive tools and employee
education to help reduce their exposure
so if you can demonstrate an acute
awareness and aptitude on how to
identify these types of attacks you'll
reduce the risk to your employer
moreover practicing cyber self to self
defense is just as relevant at home as
it is in the workplace after all our
digital personas of mostly online and
they deserve to be safeguarded as long
as there's technology that will be those
who use it for good and for evil and so
we need to ingrain the thought of
security and protection into every
decision we need to learn cyber
self-defense strategy and practice cyber
self defense tactics using common sense
derived from the physical world applied
to our digital communications and
interactions the first step in any form
of self-defense is to know your
assailant and their methods of attack so
let's spend a few minutes going over
what is certainly the most prevalent
type
of cyberattack today social engineering
social engineering is the modus operandi
of modern hackers now you're probably
already familiar with these types of
condoms they focus on gaining your trust
using opaque pieces of information which
on the surface may seem legitimate
sometimes the hackers will perform
reconnaissance so that their story will
be more personally relevant other times
though theme will be generalized
whatever form it might take the trick
here is to get you to do something
because you have what they want the
first social engineering attack on the
hackers quiver is called phishing now
this is the one to watch because it is
definitely the most widespread and the
most successful in fact you've all
probably come across a phishing email in
your personal or business inbox already
phishing is a fraudulent message which
like spam is unwanted or unsolicited but
instead of trying to sell you something
the attacker here is trying to get you
to take some sort of action because
they're trying to install malware on
your computer hackers will send
thousands of these messages as bait to
lure their prey hoping for just one
victim to fall for their trap
here's a real-world example of a well
known phishing email this one originates
circa 2007 but it's actually still
circulating in the wild there are
usually obvious warning signs to any
phishing message if you know what to
look for and are keen to find them so
let's review some of the telltale signs
of this fish one the branding of the
message is made to look and feel
legitimate but this is not the real
FedEx logo it's a cheap mock up to the
sending address is not really coming
from FedEx although what a quick glance
you might not even notice that and three
the body of the message uses poor
language and bad grammar which would
never be the case if this was really
coming from FedEx use your experience
about the subject matter to question the
reality am I expecting a package did I
order something to be delivered from
FedEx is that even a real FedEx tracking
number no it's not
and this attachment here is malicious
malware or malicious software gives an
attacker an open path on your computer
allowing them to do just about anything
they want using malware they can install
a keystroke logging program to record
your password or credit card number as
you type it in to that ever so secure
website they can capture screenshots of
your monitor display in real time
they can turn on your webcam and watch
you remotely from halfway across the
world in picture-perfect high-definition
or they can turn your computer into a
zombie note as part of a larger botnet
and use it to launch a distributed
denial-of-service attack against another
internet-connected system in other words
they can use your computer as a weapon
to engage in cyber warfare they can do
all of these things and you would never
even know what's happening and the same
family as fishing is a nut this next
attack called credential harvesting it
starts the same way using using a
phishing email to bait its victim in
this example the message is personally
relevant and the sender is completely
legitimate the action here is to follow
the link to the reference document now
we've all done this before click the
link see a familiar login screen second
nature for us to enter our username and
password let's take a look at this thing
again though it's a strangely worded
message from a friend although I wasn't
expecting them to send me anything so
I'm not exactly sure what this is if I
take my mouse and hover over the link I
can reveal the true destination and all
that although that kind of looks like
it's going to Google it's really not
this is a fake landing page made to look
and feel like the actual Google account
sign in once I enter my username and
password here the attacker now has it
and can log in as me which they'll use
to download all the data and my online
cloud storage account or log into my
email and send another thousand of these
phishing messages to my entire address
book or they'll just take my username
and password and sell it on the black
market to the highest bidder credential
harvesting is platform agnostic this is
equal opportunity for Windows and Mac
users alike if you give up your password
all bets are off this last example is a
timeless classic with a simple twist
it's called phone phishing in this
scenario the attackers actually have the
gall to talk with you on the phone and
compel you to installing malware they'll
claim to be for some well-known tech
company citing trouble with your
computer trouble which they'll happily
be able to solve for you if you just
install this simple remote
troubleshooting program for them you
guessed it it's malware so now that
we've seen some of the most prevalent
types of cyberattack today let's go over
a few rules and how we can defend
ourselves against them I call them the
cyber self defense tactics
number one stop clicking we've just seen
how dangerous cyberspace is and so we
all need to stop clicking in every file
attachment and phrase that is blue and
underlined remember 50% of all attack
targets fall victim by clicking on that
fishing link within the first hour of
the attack take a second reflect on the
telltale signs of how to spot attack and
think about how your actions are going
to affect your employer your family or
you number two seriously stop clicking I
just can't over emphasize this point
enough which is why it's here twice we
all need to make a pact collectively
today to stop clicking on everything we
see just practicing this tactic alone is
going to go a long way to prevent us
from falling victim number three use
strong passwords for the past two
decades we've all been trained to
believe that the best passwords are
complicated and hard to remember this is
simply no longer the case as both
computers and attackers have gotten
better at cracking them in the case of
the Ashley Madison breach those 32
million passwords that were exposed they
were all encrypted but if my password
there was short or using common
dictionary phrases it would be trivial
for an attacker to crack that in
actuality it's better to use a long
passphrase with words that are
personally relevant to you so that you
can recall them more easily length is
superior to complexity the passphrase
here on the right is much more difficult
to crack than the password on the left
number 4 don't reuse your passwords we
got to stop using the same single
password across all of our different
accounts of course hackers know this so
they know that if they get one of your
passwords it's going to get them in
everywhere to help get around this use
free password management software online
a few examples are LastPass and dashlane
so that you can manage multiple
passwords against multiple different
accounts with ease number 5
oops sorry you know what playing long
game passwords are a losing battle any
single layer protection is going to fail
eventually just like in the layered
defense model its multiple defenses that
we need to use for lasting protection
two-factor authentication works
similarly and if something is a message
you're already familiar with think about
how you withdraw cash from an ATM you
need your PIN and your card something
you know and something you have
one of the other is just not good enough
similarly you two-factor authentication
using your online account works the same
you start with your password but you'll
also use a one-time passcode delivered
to you out-of-band usually via text
message and email a phone call even a
smartphone app this is the future of
adequate security controls best of all
all the major tech companies provide
this service for you today completely
free of charge Google Yahoo Microsoft
Amazon even Facebook number six stay
current with your security tools and
computer software patches believe it or
not these tools still do add value
provided that you keep them running and
up to date remember
reduce your attack surface and you will
reduce your exposure be sure you've
configured Windows updates to one
frequently and automatically and then
finally the golden rule of cyber
self-defense taken directly from
President Reagan himself we are all
social creatures and we want to see the
good in everyone this is a fundamental
tenant of what makes us human we know
there are those out there who will cause
us harm so in order to ensure our
security we need to continue to trust
but it doesn't hurt to verify also and
there you have it
cyber self-defense next-generation
skills to help protect and safeguard
your information in the digital world
protect yourself and your company give
yourself an edge above the rest of the
competition by showing that you know how
to identify these types of attacks and
how not to fall victim to them a little
knowledge goes a long way stay safe out
there thanks for listening
you